# XMLProcessor
A simple XML parser for Swift.

Parsing XML a string of XML is simple:

```swift
let data = "<root><node>value</node></root>".data(using: .utf8)!

let processor = XMLProcessor()
if let object = processor.parse(data: xml) {
  if let root = object["root"] as? Dictionary<String,Any> {
    // do something with dictionary
  }
}
```

To deal with the differences between XML and JavaScript objects (JSON), some processing is done on the XML.

_NOTE:_ Do not assume that the order of the keys in the object dictionaries will be the same as they occurred in the XML. No order is preserved during processing (as is the case with JSON parsing).

If the XML has multiple nodes with the same name, they are put into an array. For example, the following XML:

```xml
<root>
	<metadata>Example</metadata>
	<entry>
		<title>First</title>
	</entry>
	<entry>
		<title>Second</title>
	</entry>
</root>		
```

Will generate:

```json
{
	"root": {
		"metadata": "Example",
		"entry": [
			{
				"title": "First"
			},
			{
				"title": "Second"
			}
		]
	}
}
```

When evaluating the result, you can use JavaScript’s `instanceof` operator. Using the example above, `object.root.entry instanceof Array` will return true, while `object.root instanceof Array` will return false. You can also use `Object.getOwnPropertyNames(object)` to get a list of properties generated for the node: in the example above, the properties of `object.root` are `[metadata,entry]`.

A node’s attributes are stored in a sibling object with a "$attrs" key. The dollar sign was chosen because it’s an invalid XML node name, but is a valid JavaScript property name. This makes it easy to access with a path like `object.root.node$attrs`.

For example, this XML:

```xml
<root>
	<node first="1" second="2" third="3">value</node>
</root>
```

Produces:

```json
{
	"root" : {
		"node" : "value",
		"node$attrs" : {
			"first" : "1",
			"second" : "2",
			"third" : "3"
		}
	}
}
```

Note that these two processing steps can be combined in some cases. An example is multiple link nodes with nothing but attributes:

```xml
<root>
	<link first="abc" second="def" />
	<link first="hij" second="klm" />
</root>
```

Will only produce attribute dictionaries:
 
```json
{
	"root" : {
		`"link$attrs" : [
			{
				"first" : "abc",
				"second" : "def"
			},
			{
				"first" : "hij",
				"second" : "klm"
			}
		]
	}
}
```

Note also that text that’s not a part of a node will be ignored. For example:

```xml
<root>
	text
	<node>value</node>
</root>
```

Results:

```json
{
	"root" : {
		"node" : "value"
	}
}
```

Finally, not all XML nodes will be accessible with a object property path. An XML node with a namespace will be represented as `namespace:key` and that’s an invalid identifier in JavaScript. You will need to access these values using the index operator instead: `object["namespace.key"]`.

This functionality should be enough to parse XML generated from hierarchical data, such as an RSS feed generated by a WordPress database of posts.
